welcome to the rustic garden today I
want to show you how you can build a
strawberry tower out of recycled
repurposed black plastic containers you
can use other containers but these seem
to be the easiest to cut this is going
to be three levels both of these
containers are the same size this is the
bottom container this pattern one two
three four and one on top is going to be
for the runner so that's not going to
get plants put in them you only want to
cut holes in about 75% 50% of the
container so because the Sun is only
going to stay along this line you could
cut more but the back side of the
container is really good to get a lot of
shade so they're not going to grow as
well so this would be the bottom in the
bottom you want to cut out a hole if
you're going to keep your container in
the same place if you think you're going
to move it around I would just make sure
the holes not so big that the dirt falls
out but mine's going to stay in one
place the middle container has eight
holes cut in it they'll get planted and
that's going to sit just like that I'm
going to fill these with 50% peat moss
50% topsoil and I'm going to use organic
fertilizer to take care of the feeding
and then the top container is smaller
that's so that I can plant around it and
also more water can get in and again I
think there's 1 2 3 4 5 that's about 75%
of the container the size of it have
holes in it again remember the back side
is going to get Sun and some of the
containers are harder to cut so it's a
lot easier to cut a square out with the
parish scissors or a knife I'm going to
assemble this fill it and plant it and
show you what it looks like I started
filling and planting my container one of
the thing that's that's really important
is to know what the crown of your
strawberry plants are they can't be
buried the crown is the place right here
this space is the crown of the
strawberry plant and from there
come new shoots and leaves sometimes
people bury it too deep if you bury the
crown the strawberry plants probably
going to die so you have to make sure
that's sticking out above the soil and
all you do is really
the crown make sure that it's sticking
out beyond the plastic container this
way the soil is just going to sit on top
of it and it would be perfectly fine in
a way that you put them in there is just
slide them in just like that I'm doing
every other planting hole because as
these grow they're going to put out
runners and the runners I'm going to pin
into these spaces down here these are
all four runners they're not going to
get plants and then up top I'll have
more plants and I'll show you what that
looks like
so just real quick as I mix in the
topsoil 50% top 50% peat moss I'm also
mixing in the fertilizer at different
levels just don't overdo it and you
could have to follow the instructions on
whatever fertilizer you're using and
kind of figure out the plan from there
here's the completed strawberry Tower
the north side is over here and I can
see how I aligned the containers more
towards the back that's just not going
to get enough Sun so you're keeping the
holes all cut towards the front and
pretty much three levels the most
important thing is to make sure your top
level you don't have any holes up here
because the water will come in and just
pour out you want the water to be able
to sink in so keep these holes down
lower and same thing middle container
there's a nice rim here to hold the
water here's a mistake I made I thought
I don't know why I thought at the bottom
I could cut a hole out here to put a
runner into that but too much water
drained out so I just put a black piece
of plastic that I cut from the bottom
right there but you want to keep the
hole somewhere in the middle just so
that the rim holds the soil in and the
water and if not you could sell your
soil just get poured out these holes you
can also plant all the holes if you want
if you have enough strawberries go ahead
and do that but this is 12 plants in
here on a three-tier strawberry Tower
made from recycled plastic the total
cost for the project I think it was
maybe 8 bucks for the strawberry plants
3 dollars in soil maybe a buck or two
and in peat moss so it's really really
inexpensive and this should last year to
year here in Maryland zone 7 the
strawberries will keep coming back hope
you enjoyed the video please check out
my blog the WWSD gardener blocks
and also check out my youtube videos
thanks